I'm very blessed to be able to talk
to a lot of entrepreneurs and thought
leaders and serial entrepreneurs and VCS
that I respect every year we're talking
a lot about
Ai and I haven't seen the energy in
great entrepreneurs thought leaders
Visionaries that I see in their eyes
today in like 20 years and I share the
same
sentiment and I'm trying to understand
and why and respect the fact that
like when the internet technology kind
of came out we knew what it was and like
whatever
1997 the kind of the same time as what's
going on in AI right
now that like some people at this
conference weren't even born yet that's
how long ago it was and I'm trying to
explain like why do I have this feeling
and why do our peers have this feeling
and I think it's like for the first time
in 20 years it's a blank canvas
it's complete artistic Freedom
especially in our area of B2B software
we can reimagine
everything and that didn't happen with
the other like blockchain like I don't
know what kind of impact that's going to
have on society with if crypto comes
back or whatever but like I I never saw
the blockchain thing in our sector B2B
software I was just like I look at plays
I'm like can't you just use a QR code or
like encryption like yeah you kind of
can and then like social was big social
was huge for our society for B2B I don't
know I kind of rewrote some of the
marketing playbooks and maybe the way we
collaborate mobile was huge for society
but like I don't know like I use the
mobile version of slack and zoom and the
CRM but like it kind of is based on the
web
version but the internet when the
internet came out and we knew what the
technology could do we could reimagine
everything
and that's how these Visionaries feel
with
AI and I think that's really actionable
for us because as you start thinking
about it you become paranoid that
everything you're working on is
irrelevant I don't know if you feel like
that I feel like that sometimes and I've
been pushing our entrepreneurs to think
that way too because I think there's a
decent chance that whatever you're
working on as a startup as a use case as
a
problem it might be irrelevant it might
be like it's 1997 and you're working on
a client
server on premise piece of software and
you're about to get the rug pulled out
from under your feet and so that's just
the one thing I'd really push you on is
that's our job as Founders is to be
Visionaries this is an exciting time to
be a
Visionary but try to think what a post
aai technology ology world looks like
in8 years and reimagine what your
startup is doing reimagine how the use
case or the problem that you're solving
is solved in that world because
otherwise I think we face
irrelevance now it gets even more
complicated because the other narrative
that I'm hearing that I agree with is
that we're in a hype
cycle I'm showing the Gartner hype curve
here this was first mentioned to me in
January from M moon at Kleiner Perkins
who's been a great investor early
investor in slack and figma Box
Etc and the narrative is that like there
could be a very close parallel to how
the interrup the internet disrupted
society and B2B
software and how AI will and we're
seeing a lot of parallels to that and if
we were to say what year this is in the
internet rollout it's probably around
okay so if you remember if you're around
back then 1998 it was the new economy do
you remember the new economy all the
Goldman Sachs bankers and Mackenzie
people quit their jobs and became CEOs
of these supposedly disruptor businesses
that went public with no revenue and it
was like iterative ideas it was like
putting the news online or putting your
company brochure online no one could see
snowflake no one could see Uber yet and
even if they did the society wasn't
ready it was iterative
stuff like the the early adopters the
first movers didn't win either in the
first wave of the internet we we use AOL
to dial up to it opened up a Netscape
browser and searched with altav Vista
where are those
companies that's where we are right now
potentially and then obviously it came
crashing down and the joke was that b
Toc was back to Consulting and B2 B2B
was back to banking and it was like I
remember I had enrolled at MIT at about
the trough for business school at the
trough of that curve there were 600
students in my class four of them were
starting companies and I was one of them
everybody's like what are you doing
starting a company that's so
1999 and sure enough like within those
walls companies like HubSpot were
created and we had this beautiful
disruption and Innovation that was an
amazing time for
entrepreneurship and perhaps that's what
we're going to see with AI and we're
seeing early signals of it in terms of
like crazy valuations and certainly
iterative Technologies just embedding an
AI in the workflows we do today that's
not the answer that's not the
disruption and so in addition to just
rethinking your vision you got to think
really big about it because even if you
feel like you have your AR
strategy is it really just an iteration
that's going to die in the hype cycle or
is it truly A
disruption on what's going to sustain
for the next few decades and produce
unicorns all right so how do we come up
with
that I kind of think right now an
important piece of
work um is the innovator's dilemma and
I'll get i'll get to that but what we're
trying to do is we're trying to think
like okay if web 1.0 is static content
and the user generated content produced
a bunch of unicorns what is it that's
going to be hype versus the displacement
and that's where I like to co hone in on
innovators dilemma I don't know if you
know innovator's dilemma it's a long
time work longtime work we got a fan
here in front of it Klay Christensen the
late Klay Christenson we lost him I
think last year uh Professor Harvard
Business School um author of this work
and after Reams and years of research he
proved that the innovator's Dilemma
causes big companies to get disrupted
it's an important key for
entrepreneurship and the whole premise
there is that big companies ride that
like that iterative disruptive wave of
that technology and they get so big that
they have to sell big products for big
profits to their current market but
Along Comes a new disruptive
technology that in the beginning doesn't
represent a big market and they ignore
it partially because there's too small
for them and partially because it will
disrupt their
business okay so how many raise your
hand if you use CRM okay let me let me
say this in
1995 seel and act owned 90% of the CRM
business raise your hand if you use a
CRM keep your hand up if you're using C
or
act case in point why didn't they go
innovator's dilemma right so like
they're they have a beautiful on premise
client server application and here comes
the internet and I'm sure there was a
strategic conversation of like should we
make this cloud-based let's look at it
well first off it would cause years of
work for us to rearchitecturing
o wants their data and the server Farm
in their basement with protection of
three badges to get in to get access to
it no one's going to put in the cloud
but Salesforce takes the gamble their
first logo was software with a red X
through it and it didn't get sold to the
big companies it got sold to the small
companies first for a little bit of
money but they worked on it year after
year after year and then the big
companies were ready for it and SE act
weren't and it caused cannibalization
and disruption so so what is the
innovator's Dilemma today as you rethink
your startup in an AI first world
knowing that we're in a hype cycle how
do you not get hyped how do you become a
true disruptor and find the innovator's
Dilma I don't
know but the gentleman that told me
about this one is in the audience here
his name is om he's the co-founder of
tatango and he's working on one of these
and he basically said think about it
let's just use sales Tech as an example
most sales Tech unicorns the foundation
of their pricing model is seat-based
that's how it
works so just imagine if an engineer
approaches the board or CEO and says I'm
working on technology that's going to
get rid of all
sdrs no way that will destroy our
business our whole business is
seat-based and God forbid we could even
transition from a seat-based to a
consumption model there's no way we can
demand the acvs that we get from them
it'll cannibalize our entire business
and yet the potential of AI and the
maximum efficiency it can create will be
the displacement
technology is that an innovator's
dilemma if you look at the language from
all of the incumbents today it's
co-pilot co-pilot
co-pilot is displace their
cannibalization is that the opport
for entrepreneurship is that the
difference between hype and displacement
and this huge Tech disruption that we're
going
into what's the innovator's Dilemma for
your
business your
sector now I do have to say like this is
scary
stuff all right like not just the fact
that Geniuses that work on this stuff
are scared of the future of the human
race which that's very
scary but what's probably easier to see
is the economic impact that this could
have and I'm not like I'm not advocating
it I'm just saying this is what people
are talking about and this is the
potential of the
technology now the solving this is not
for saster this for congress United
Nations I don't know the halls of the
socioeconomic Halls of like Yale and
Stanford and Harvard I don't know but I
I do know that like I I want to just
mention it like I recognize the economic
impact this could have this technolog is
coming no matter what I appreciate
petitions to sign to try to stop it but
I I'm not sure that that's the solution
it just seems like Bad actors will be
able to get a head a leg on us and I'd
rather this technology be run by the
people in this room I trust them more
and so I the only point I'll make is if
this were to happen and I will say a
caveat that like as I debate this in the
halls of Harvard Business School with
some of the best economists in the world
they have gone off and done research and
come back to to me and said hey the same
narrative would H was happening at the
brink of mass production at the
beginning of last century and the same
narrative was happening at the brink of
internet and e-commerce and disruption
of jobs that that would happen and it
didn't happen in fact it created more
jobs so that's their prediction I hope
they're right it's hard for me to see it
but that's what they're saying but God
forbid this does create tremendous job
displacement if you happen to be one of
the benefactors just make sure you find
a way to progress rather rather than
regress Society I don't know what the
answer is whether it's a Ubi tax I don't
know but just like let's make sure we
understand this as we embark on this
crazy technology
okay
so go to the mountain rethink your
business in a post
World hard to do and by the way we're in
a hype cycle so think bigger than you
actually
are unfortunately more complexity and
more bad news if you are able to come up
with a big
vision and figure out a true
displacement business model and
technology that is going to be the
unicorn in 10 years the Market's not
ready for it right
now you will have no
customers I'm sure someone came up with
Uber in 1997 and it failed miserably
probably wasn't even technically
feasible so we're we're not ready for
it so this is really hard because it's
like okay if I keep working on what I'm
doing I'm going to get disrupted in 10
years but if I work on the true
disruption in 10 years there's not going
to have any
customers and so this is where the old
adage of design big but start
small is a very good narrative and
operating system to
follow and in fact this is uh forget
about AI this is a root cause of what I
see as a lot of entrepreneurial failure
this year
anyway and it's caused because of uh the
obsession with venture capital I mean
it's it's surprising to people that more
wealth is generated in startups in
non-vc back startups than VC back
startups that's surprising to people but
it doesn't make the headlines the VC
back startup makes the headlines so
everyone wants to raise VC and like I'm
a VC I'm more wealth is created a not VC
I'm just telling you that but you know
when you have to go after VC like our
job for our investors is to generate
huge returns like go after unicorns so
you have to tell a big Market story like
a billion dollar market Story the
problem is yeah tell the story but most
entrepreneurs try to prove the story
right out of the gate they build a huge
product for everybody and try to sell to
everyone and that leads to failure you
just can't do that we don't need to see
it all working in the first year we need
to believe the vision so yeah tell the
big story but build the MVP that could
potentially get you to $10 million and
once you test it exploit it and scale
that one product in that single Market
get it to $10 million it takes two or
three years if you're
cruising and then that gives you time to
test the next Market or test the next
product or both and then use that in the
next three years to get to 50 million
and that gives you more time to test the
next product to the next product market
and you're a platform and now you're
going
IPO that's the big story and that is
really critical in this time where I'm
telling you or I'm
pontificating that the ideas we have
today are either going to get disruptive
or the iterative we need the big idea
that the Market's not ready for today so
we have to find that beach head that's
safe and that happened during the
internet Bezos and jobs I can give you a
story about both of them Jeff Bezos did
not set out to be a book
salesperson but that was the first
version of Amazon Bezos was I think a
Quant hedge fund person person and he
was like this internet thing's
crazy all of Commerce is going to be
disrupted all of brick and morar is
going to disrupted we're going to order
everything from clothes to food to
everything online and I want to sell
that but he didn't start there he
actually made a list of 50 things to
sell and looked at it through a lens and
he chose books first because we weren't
ready for the rest books had high margin
books had millions of Unique Products
every single year and most importantly
no one at that time trusted putting
their credit card in and no one at their
time trusted buying a product without
touching it in a store but who cares
it's a
book so that's the beach head and he
exploited it and not only was it a
beautiful beach head but it created a
moat for the long-term Vision because it
was years of selling books that helped
him with his operational rigor all the
warehouses all the delivery mechanisms
and Walmart couldn't catch up and here
is his vision 20 years later the same
thing happened with jobs I don't know if
you know but jobs got fired from Apple
in the 80s and he got rehired as CEO
when they were months away from
bankruptcy and he turned the company
around with the reinvention of the mac
and then when the internet came about he
had the big Vision he's like apple is
going to be the hub for the consumer on
their digital media experience
everything but he didn't start there he
started with music which was ironically
number two on bezos's list of a best
product to start with he started with
the iPod and the iTunes Store and used
that moat to transition to the iPhone
and the app Marketplace and the rest is
history we're talking about some of the
most valuable companies in the world on
the Advent of a huge technological
disruption and we are back there right
now and that's the opportunity ahead of
us
okay all
right I have to go to the mountain and
reimagine my business but we're in a
hype cycle so I have to think bigger and
when I think big they're not going to be
ready for it so I have to choose a good
beach head and we got a couple examples
on how to do that another example on
choosing that opening Beach head that's
unique to AI is we need good data to
train the model we didn't need that with
mobile we didn't need that with the
internet but we need good
data and so if you want to Stack the
deck in your favor choose use cases as
an entrepreneur where the big company
incumbents don't have the
data that'll stack the deck in your
favor if we go back to sales Tech as an
example everybody's starting SDR
co-pilots they have all the
data the incumbents have all the data
the messaging the cold calls the
conversion to
Opportunities everyone's starting
forecasting AI models they have all the
data they have all the opportunity
conversions in the sales
Cycles sales AI coaching they don't have
the data no one has videos of sales
managers coaching reps and then that
turning into performance improvements no
one has that it's just an
example but if you're going to go after
this huge technological disruption
consider
whether the incumbents have the data or
not now at the same time like even if
you are doing an SDR cpilot there is a
chance you can
win because of talent there's tremendous
research that shows that the top
engineering Talent prefers startups over
big
companies part of it's because like they
actually don't care as much about
maximizing their salary income they care
more about working on cool techn
technology with little red tape to
deploy that technology and that's what
happens at startups it doesn't happen at
big companies their stock can actually
be worth a lot too and that draws them
in so now we're faced with a bake off
you got startups who have the best AI
Tech
talent but they don't have the
data they have limited data you got the
encants that have like average AI Tech
Talent with all the data who
wins I personally thought the most data
would win but Sam Alman and Peter teal
disagree and I would go with their
vote they I think if I'm quoting them
correctly feel like there's a
diminishing returns to the data at some
point in the model
development so if you had to choose
between having an A+ AI Tech Talent team
with millions of records of data and you
were going against a mediocre AI Tech
Talent team with trillions of dat of
data that the startup wins and that
starts to make sense with the
diminishing returns of that data so
there's a feather in our cap as we go
head-to-head but regardless what does
happen in these companies is the
acquisition of data becomes an important
function probably within the business
development
domain because we don't have any data
and we see some early signs of
techniques here we see some companies
who are out there using the publicly
available data to BU build a model which
is pretty commoditized but they're
actually using your company data to
tailor the model to you that's cool I
come in I use your data at tailor it I
think there's might be some limitations
to how much data a single company has to
build a model but that's cool there are
other people who are striking up
relationships with people who have data
but have no shot at building a tech team
maybe the credit bureaus as an example
maybe grocery storage is an example I
don't know who has tons of data and has
no chance of building a teag team that's
cool if we can partner up with them the
problem is that the credit buers think
their data is more important than the
tech talent and the startup thinks the
tech talent's more important than data
so you have a little bake off I mean
maybe if you can actually find eight
different players that have data and
start to like build exclusive
Partnerships with them you kind of chess
move them into having to join your
movement or being left out of the future
but
regardless we've never really talked
about data acquis position as a
function it's the narrative is that
that's going to be an important function
for startups as we attack this
opportunity so that would be a framework
to think about a beach
head we have to think bigger we have to
go to the mountain we're probably in a
hype curve so we can't get stuck up in
something iterative we have to find a
get but yet they're not ready for the
big idea so we have to come up with a
beach head and a good beach head is
where they don't the big incumbents
don't have the data we can get access to
the data and that beach head creates a
mo for the long-term Vision something to
think
about so we ran an experiment at stage
two Capital that'll be instructive to
the next point in this journey to
building a unicorn in a post AI
world and uh so stage UC cap if you
haven't heard of us we're the first VC
firm running back
by go to market professionals so we have
the cro and the CMO and the CCO we have
500 of them as our investors from
Snowflake and zoom and alassian and
GitHub and all those companies some of
them are sit in in the room here and
speaking at the conference so what I did
and I actually wonder if this is true
for you all how many of you two years
ago in 2021 had a board mandate to to
grow at all cost and now your board
mandate is to be very efficient is
anyone going to that change okay that
was happening to a lot of our LPS as
well how many of you are looking at AI
as a main driver to do
that yeah there's not really many hands
which is like a little confusing to me
because it seems like that would be a
big opportunity to adopt that and so
that's what I said at the lp meeting in
May I was like hey if you're under a lot
of pressure from your board to do more
with less and you want to try to use AI
in your go to market motion like for
your sdrs your account executive support
people your marketers whatever we're
seeing a lot of go to market AI Tech so
I can just email them to you every week
and you can like take meetings with the
ones that we see and people are psyched
about that 100 LPS said I want to see
that for my company to use in my company
and so I promoted that I went online and
said Hey listen I have a hundred cro and
CMOS from places like Snowflake and atas
and zoom and all these places that want
to see the tech we're seeing so if
you're starting a company in go to
market AI fill out this landing page and
I'll promote it to them and I had 200
people fill that out in like a week so
we got a pretty good Glimpse at like
where the Innovation was happening
specifically in go to market Ai and it
was actually kind of boring to be honest
with you it was all the iterative stuff
like a quarter of them were SDR
co-pilots a quarter of them were
forecast things whatever and we had like
I don't know we had 50 meeting requests
I think and I'm exaggerating here with
pretty much zero
Pilots That's
crazy and when I went back to the LPS
and I was like what's going on like we
love the technology it's just the
lawyers and the IT people won't let us
use
it we don't have a legal policy on IP
for AI in our data and the security team
doesn't know how to deal with it so we
have to
wait okay well that's pretty instructive
we're starting a company where do we
have to sell well first off I think
that's good news for startups because
that means that your incumbents that you
want to try to disrupt are going to wait
to get more operationally efficient and
you can get ahead of the game and get
there faster the other thing that I saw
was they're just suffering especially in
go to market Tech from too many apps and
they were like I just want to wait to
find out what my current vendor comes
out with and I think that helps us the
startups too because I don't if the
current vendors are going to come out
with the best stuff I think the startups
will and if the big companies are going
to wait to adopt the new Innovations
it's just an advantage for us as
startups so I think that's quite
instructive to when we build that mvp is
where do we start and I I kind of feel
like there were like two seemingly
unrelated things that happened in the
last couple years one being that chat
gbt came out and we got a really good
good glimpse of what AI could do and the
other one is that we moved we had a you
know the bullish Mark in Tech dissolve
and we're back to an efficient market so
now what you're left with
is if I had to choose which industry to
roll out a te new tech into I would not
choose manufacturing I would not choose
Healthcare I would not choose Finance I
would choose tech they're innovators
they know how to run experiments they
know how to deploy this stuff and the
biggest meme in the boardroom at the the
tech company is do more with less that's
kind of the summary of
AI so we have this beautiful like the
opposite of a perfect storm this
opportunity where our our beautiful
beach Head Market has a strong desire
for our technology it's just the big
folks don't want to adopt
it so that's how I would think about it
is if I'm G to build my MVP I'm going to
build it with the startup Tech Community
that's like scary for me to say because
the startup Tech bu itself as an that
that has a high failure rate so you're
going to have a lot of churn but it's
just where you're going to have the
quickest ban for your buck to build the
models and then quickly move up to the
SNB mid-market Tech which is a pretty
common best practice and over the years
the big te tech companies I think will
get their legal and it stuff together
and also see that the AI stuff that the
large incumbents come up with is sub
optimal to what you as entrepreneurs
come up
with so that's it I got one more for you
but
like we could be on the brink of the
most important technology disruption of
our
lifetime and that means that a lot of
the stuff we're working on is going to
be Irrelevant in six years so rethink it
and understand that we're in the hype
curve so you got to think really big
and appreciate innovators dilemas as a
way to craft that story knowing that the
Market's not going to be ready so you
have to be very strategic in choosing
that first use case like Bezos did where
the market is ready and it creates a mo
for you and selling it to the right
Market okay I got one more for you but
um and by the way um I'll take questions
over there it's just that like uh AI is
so controversial right now like there's
protesters outside of this conference
right now I just feel like a politician
taking questions on AI in front of
cameras so if it's cool with you just go
over there and I'll do the questions
sorry for chickening out um but anyway
uh I had mentioned stage two Capital um
I'm I want to share some content because
I always come up here and speak and I
try to like give you really tactical
stuff that you can use tomorrow and I
love getting the LinkedIn messages that
say like I went to saster I implemented
the thing and it accelerated Revenue I
love that and this is more strategic and
I wanted to do this today because again
I'm really paranoid that what we're
working on is irrelevant so that's why I
talked about that today but I want to
give you some tactical stuff too um so
first off um Mandy who's going to be
speaking on Friday one of our partners
uh if you're in annual planning season
you should be in annual planning season
don't wait till January to build your
Bottoms Up Plan CU you'll realize that
you should have hired four reps in Q4 to
hit your 2024 plan please start your
annual planning process in o on October
1st so you can hit your 2024 number
Mandy's got a great template that you
can download that helps you build a
Bottoms Up Plan that you can actually
hit in 2024 our other another partner of
ours Liz uh Christo um she's been
running every Saturday an as stage two
um blog uh we basically sit as a group
and say what are the biggest questions
coming from our entrepreneurs every week
and she writes about them whether it's
standing up a partnership program or set
up your first pricing model or putting
it together an MSA or whatever it is she
writes about those things From The
Trenches that we're feeling if you
haven't um seen my work on science of
scaling I personally believe the number
one failure reason for startups is they
they choose the wrong time to scale and
they choose to scale at the wrong Pace
they basically copy what snowflake did
and that's not right for you necessarily
and so what the science of scaling work
does is it helps you and your board
calculate using your data
when you should scale and calculate
using your data how fast you should
scale so if you're thinking about moving
to scale mode you can check that out and
last for Mandy again she's actually
speaking on Friday on this there's a
brain date on building your first go to
market Playbook if you have to be in
that uh realm um so these uh I have one
more thought for you but these slides
are posted on the stage two Capital
LinkedIn account right now so if you
want to download the slides it has all
the links from from the downloadable
material you can go to Stage Capital
LinkedIn download them feel free to
follow us if you want to track some of
the Tactical things that we put out okay
the last point I'll make is as
entrepreneurs history is on your
side of the Fortune 500 companies that
were on that list in
1950 90% are no longer on the
list
because of Entrepreneurship and
Innovation and disruption because of the
things we talked
about the longevity on the list has been
cut in half the average time in the
Fortune 500 list for a company in the
1970s or so was 30 years now it's
15 AI is expected to do an even make an
even bigger dent in that history is on
your side and I just want you to
remember that cu entrepreneurship is
hard and it's so hard to think about how
can we
compete with the billion doll marketing
budgets with the 10,000 employees with
the Billboards with the 20 years of
engineering development but you have to
remember that those people are driving
aircraft carriers that take so much
energy just to turn at 5 degrees and you
are flying an F-15 fighter and there
couldn't be a better time time to do
that than now with arguably the biggest
technology advancement of our lifetime
history is on your side so go make
history thank
you